#summary OpenJPEG Coding Style

= C =

== FAQ ==

{{{
  Q: Does OpenJPEG requires C99 compiler ?
  A: No
}}}
{{{
  Q: Are you sure OpenJPEG does not requires C99 compiler, because I see stdint.h in the source code
  A: Yes !
}}}
== Description ==
OpenJPEG is meant to be portable. OpenJPEG should only requires ANSI C (C89) compilers.

== Exceptions ==

Instead of re-inventing the wheel, OpenJPEG will use C99 notations in two occasions:
 * fixed-type notation
 * large file support

OpenJPEG uses two build-system: cmake & autotools. Both support system inspection and compiler detection. What happen in that:
 * iff compiler provide a stdint.h we will use it
 * iff compiler provide large file support we will use it

So in summary:
 * if your compiler does not provide a stdint.h we will emulate it using compiler private extension
 * if your compiler does not support Large File Support, you will not have support for LFS in OpenJPEG

Note: since we use type from stdint.h we will use the C99 notation PRIi64, PRIu64 & PRIx64 for printing the fixed 64 bits type. Again this is not a requirement on your compiler, we will use your compiler private extension as replacement if PRI?64 is not present.

= Code Formating =

== Portability ==

File should be pushed to server with UNIX eol

== Tabs ==

You should not use tab char, but instead use two white space. See uncrustify example:
 * http://code.google.com/p/openjpeg/source/browse/dev-utils/scripts/opj.cfg

== Comment ==

Because OpenJPEG is written in C. One should use C style comment: {{{/*}}} and {{{*/}}}

For doxygen, one should use {{{/**}}} and {{{*/}}}

= Open Questions =

 * What charset to use for unicode ? UTF-8 is a good contestant. Eg: "Università" in comment
 * tab spaces ? indent ? uncrutify rule ?
 * file type (UNIX eol would be nice)


= Useful commands to clean style of cmake part =
== Convert CMake-language commands to lower case (Thanks to Hans Johnson)==
NOTE: MUST USE GNU compliant version of sed
Run the following shell code (Modified from Brad King, and used on CMake source code):
\#!/bin/bash
cmake --help-command-list \
| grep -v "cmake version" \
| while read c; do
    echo 's/\b'"$(echo $c | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]')"'\(\s*\)(/'"$c"'\1(/g'
  done >convert.sed \
&& git ls-files -z -- bootstrap '*.cmake' '*.cmake.in' '*CMakeLists.txt' \
   | fgrep -v thirdparty \
   | xargs -0 gsed -i -f convert.sed \
&& rm convert.sed